Project: Data Lake
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1. Descripcion

A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database even more and want to move their data warehouse to a data lake. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

In this project, you'll apply what you've learned on Spark and data lakes to build an ETL pipeline for a data lake hosted on S3. To complete the project, you will need to load data from S3, process the data into analytics tables using Spark, and load them back into S3.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Project Datasets

You'll be working with two datasets that reside in S3. Here are the S3 links for each:

Song data: s3://udacity-dend/song_data
Log data: s3://udacity-dend/log_data

2.1 Song Dataset

The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset

song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json


2.2 Log Dataset

he second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.

The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

3. ETL pipeline DataLake

3. 1. Create your user in and copy the credentials

3. 2. Read data from S3

Song data: s3://udacity-dend/song_data

Log data: s3://udacity-dend/log_data

3. 3. Process the files with spark

When processing them create the following scheme

3.4 Fact Table

songplays - records in log data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong 
            songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent
            
3.5 Dimension Tables

users - users in the app
        user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level
        
songs - songs in music database
        song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration
        
artists - artists in music database
          artist_id, name, location, lattitude, longitude

time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units
       start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday

3.6 . Upload processed data to the output S3 repository

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. ETL pipeline - How to run

4. 1. Configure our AWS credentials in the dl.cfg file
KEY=[YOUR_AWS_ACCESS_KEY]
SECRET=[YOUR_AWS_SECRET_KEY]

4. 2. Create an output repository called "sparky-project-dend"

4. 3. Execute the python file as follows "python etl.py".