PROJECT: DATA WAREHOUSE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1. Project Introduction

A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database and want to move their processes and data onto the cloud. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.
In this project, you'll apply what you've learned on data warehouses and AWS to build an ETL pipeline for a database hosted on Redshift. To complete the project, you will need to load data from S3 to staging tables on Redshift and execute SQL statements that create the analytics tables from these staging tables.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Project Datasets

You'll be working with two datasets that reside in S3. Here are the S3 links for each:

Song data: s3://udacity-dend/song_data
Log data: s3://udacity-dend/log_data
Log data json path: s3://udacity-dend/log_json_path.json
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2.1 Song Dataset

The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json

2.1.1 Sample data

{"num_songs": 1, "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7", "artist_latitude": null, "artist_longitude": null, "artist_location": "", "artist_name": "Line Renaud", "song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1", "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff", "duration": 152.92036, "year": 0}

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2.2 Log Dataset

The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.

2.2.1 Sample data

{"artist":null,"auth":"Logged In","firstName":"Walter","gender":"M","itemInSession":0,"lastName":"Frye","length":null,"level":"free","location":"San Francisco-Oakland-Hayward, CA","method":"GET","page":"Home","registration":1540919166796.0,"sessionId":38,"song":null,"status":200,"ts":1541105830796,"userAgent":"\"Mozilla\/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_9_4) AppleWebKit\/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome\/36.0.1985.143 Safari\/537.36\"","userId":"39"}
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Schema for Song Play Analysis

3.1 Fact Table
songplays - records in event data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong
songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent

3.2 Dimension Tables

3.2.1 users - users in the app
user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level

3.2.2 songs - songs in music database
song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration

3.2.3 artists - artists in music database
artist_id, name, location, lattitude, longitude

3.2.4 time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units
start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. How to run

4.1 We can create our Redshift cluster or run the CREATE_CLUSTER.py file

4.2 Configure the dwh.cfg file

    [CLUSTER]
    HOST=
    DB_NAME=
    DB_USER=
    DB_PASSWORD=
    DB_PORT=

    [IAM_ROLE]
    ARN=''

    [S3]
    LOG_DATA='s3://udacity-dend/log_data'
    LOG_JSONPATH='s3://udacity-dend/log_json_path.json'
    SONG_DATA='s3://udacity-dend/song_data'

4.3 Create and load data run "python create_tables.py".

