Project: Data Modeling with Postgres
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Project Description
In this project, you'll apply what you've learned on data modeling with Postgres and build an ETL pipeline using Python. To complete the project, you will need to define fact and dimension tables for a star schema for a particular analytic focus, and write an ETL pipeline that transfers data from files in two local directories into these tables in Postgres using Python and SQL.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Song Dataset
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.
Example
{"num_songs": 1, "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7", "artist_latitude": null, "artist_longitude": null, "artist_location": "", "artist_name": "Line Renaud", "song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1", "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff", "duration": 152.92036, "year": 0}
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Log Dataset
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.

The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Schema
Fact Table
songplays - records in log data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong
songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent
Dimension Tables
users - users in the app
user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level
songs - songs in music database
song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration
artists - artists in music database
artist_id, name, location, latitude, longitude
time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units
start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Project Files
test.ipynb displays the first few rows of each table to let you check your database.
create_tables.py drops and creates your tables. You run this file to reset your tables before each time you run your ETL scripts.
etl.ipynb reads and processes a single file from song_data and log_data and loads the data into your tables. This notebook contains detailed instructions on the ETL process for each of the tables.
etl.py reads and processes files from song_data and log_data and loads them into your tables. You can fill this out based on your work in the ETL notebook.
sql_queries.py contains all your sql queries, and is imported into the last three files above.
README.md provides discussion on your project.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Environment
Python 3.6 or above

PostgresSQL 9.5 or above

psycopg2 - PostgreSQL database adapter for Python
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
How to run
run the code from Main_Project.ipynb

The create_tables.py and etl.py file can also be run independently as below:

python create_tables.py 
python etl.py 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------